So the last thing we have to do then
is getting our desktop layout in place.
So let's do a quick check of that.
Okay, we did not finish
the desktop layout.
Let me find you the desktop layout here.
Okay, so the desktop layout
will wind up looking like this.
Remember, it's still gonna
have the gradient on it.
The screenshot doesn't have it because
it'll look really ugly if it does,
just the way the screenshotting
software works.
So what we wanna do is we wanna put
our reviews over here in a column by
themselves.
In the middle, we're going to have
our album and our audio player.
And then on the right hand side,
we're going to have our new album and
we're going to have our tracklist.
And then down here at the bottom of
all that, we'll have our footer and
of course on the top of all that
we will have our navigation.
Okay, sounds good.
Should I give you guys a chance to see
if you can make this happen on your own?
I think at this point you should
be able to do this on your own.
All the code is written.
What is our approach here?
Does anybody have a suggested approach for
this?
>> Grid.
>> Probably grid, right?
So, if we're gonna do grid,
we have an outside wrapper, right?
Which is our wrapper,
inside we have our elements, yeah?
So, we can set up grid and
we can tell everything where to go and
it should just work, right?
Okay, So we're starting from this state.
Go through a detail,
a more detailed answer.
We're starting from this state, right?
This works great.
Looks good on mobile,
looks good on tablet, perfect.
So now what we need to do is we
need to get this into the columns.
So we need to have the reviews on
that left-hand side, the album, and
the audio in the middle, everything else
on the right-hand side, and of course,
the footer across the bottom.
So how do we go about doing all of that?
By the way, pro tip, many of you forgot
to copy over your JavaScript for
the audio player.
So if you forgot to do that,
you'll know because your audio player,
the button here will
just be a green circle.
It actually won't have the triangle in it.
That indicates that there's something
wrong with your JavaScript,
I've noticed with this
particular little bit of code.
So make sure you've copied
over your JavaScript so
that you still have
the ability to play this track.
Okay, so
then let us go to work here on our CSS.
So I'm just gonna flatten down all my
layers here got a bunch of layers.
Okay, and what I'm going to do here
is the first thing that we need
to do of course is evaluate that design
and think about what needs to change.
So we have a header that
goes across the top,
we need to take the reviews which are kind
of in the middle of things pull them
over to the left hand side then we'll
put the audio in the middle and
then we'll put the other content
here on the right hand side.
But the header goes across the top and
the footer goes across the bottom.
So you could do something as we've
done many times before with grid,
where you could have the wrapper be
your grid container, and you could have,
big layers for layers with a grid
area associated with them.
That will stretch all the way
across the top and the bottom.
That's one approach to this.
Or you could put in a little
bit of extra HTML and
group those particular elements together.
So remember our HTML is looking like this.
Okay, and so what I'm going to do,
just to kind of continue to mix it up and
show you there's all kinds
of approaches to this stuff,
we will add a div with
a class of main-grid.
And I'm gonna end that just
after the unnamed section.
And the whole purpose of that div with
a class of main-grid is to make our
layout work just a little bit more easily,
okay?
So now all I have to do is
put the cover in the middle,
the reviews on the left and the album and
the table will fall in on the right.
Make sense?
Okay, so then I can make
a corresponding layer at layer,
main grid, because that's
what we're going to put here.
And then inside of this we need
to figure out what our media
queries are going to be.
And you may have come up with all
kinds of different media queries for
what you're doing.
I'll just give you what numbers
I had found worked okay for me.
So I had and at media with a max
width of 700 pixels.
And for this, We'll see.
I had a wrapper class here which will
have a mean width of 325 pixels and
a max width of 700 pixels.
And a padding of 01 rim to keep
it off the edges of the webpage.
So of course that's gonna
impact very small sizes here.
So when we get to mobile, right?
We'll have a little bit of space on
either side, just like that, and
we'll get no smaller than 325.
We'll start scrolling off
the screen when we hit 325,
and we'll stay at this mobile
dimension until we hit 700 pixels.
And when we hit 700 pixels, we'll actually
know because we'll see the tablet,
I mean, sorry, we'll see the blue
border appear around the album.
There, so that's where we leave
that particular media query, okay.
So then for our desktop layout,
we can add ourselves an add media.
And this time I'm going to do
a min-width of 1025 pixels.
And, by the way,
we kind of have some starting kind
of stuff down here at the bottom.
We can get rid of this.
So we can get rid of this,
these other media queries that were here.
This one?
Yeah, we'll just get rid of that too.
Okay, get rid of those.
And then in here we're gonna have
a wrapper, a glass of wrapper.
We're gonna have a max
width of 1440 pixels.
So we're gonna make it for
up to a really big screen.
And as always, you can put a border on it.
That will help.
It never fails to help,
1 pixel solid white.
We can get rid of it later.
That's a debugging border that shows us
what's going on here with our wrapper.
Hopefully my screen can get big enough.
Anybody getting a border show up?
Mine is, okay, good.
Okay, then, for main grid itself,
notice main grid hasn't been
styled at anywhere along the way.
We haven't styled it for mobile,
we didn't style it for tablet,
we're only gonna style it here for
desktop.
And so here we can say display grid.
And we can say our grid template columns.
And often we use that
flexible fr unit of measure,
but sometimes you may
want to mix it up a bit.
So here what I wanna do is make
my left column, 200 pixels wide.
Remember we designed specifically for 200
pixels wide for that left column, right?
When we worked on those reviews auto,
and then 350 pixels.
So, what this is going to do is it's going
to give us a fixed width left column,
a fixed width right column,
and all of the extra space goes
to the middle of the design.
Make sense?
So, that middle of the design can
expand and contract as needed, but
those two columns will stay
a fixed width because,
that track list doesn't look particularly
good when it gets overly wide.
And we don't want the reviews to get
too wide cuz then they'll turn into
their tablet format, right?
So this is an approach that we
can use to make that happen.
And then, of course, we can give it a gap.
Let's do 2rem.
Okay, so if we take a look at it so far,
I must have something wrong
in my code somewhere.
Maybe a query.
Look at that.
[LAUGH] Okay, so
I never close my first media query.
Let me close that real quick.
So there's one media query,
here's the second media query.
And then in theory,
There we go.
All right, so this tends to give us errors
for these layer things here in CodePen.
This is a shortcoming of CodePen.
Don't worry about it.
Everything is fine.
We'll Save and Refresh.
Not working yet.
Ha, finally.
Okay, here we go.
I don't know what it was,
but now it's working.
Okay, continuing on.
[LAUGH] All right, so
let me collapse everything up here.
There we go.
Playlist, okay, so
here inside of our main grid,
we're working on our desktop media query.
And so now I have my three columns and
grid will assign those three columns
in the order of the HTML source, right?
So we wind up with our cover over here
on the left side, we have our reviews
in the middle, and then we have this
new album thing over here on the side.
And it looks like maybe I
do have some sort of HTML,
problem because this rap
down here underneath.
>> Those two are separate sections, right?
>> They're separate sections.
And so it's grid is doing what grid does,
right?
It's put it down here in the next column.
So that's what's going on.
Now what about this?
It was all a dream.
What is going on here?
We didn't, certainly didn't style it this
way with this grapey, huge, long column.
What is happening there?
Ready now?
>> There needs to be a deliver on that.
And there's something around
that in the tracklist.
>> Yeah, so somehow we need to
group the it was all a dream and
the tracklist and
then that border will resolve itself.
It'll fix.
Because what happens with grid is this
is gonna stretch all the way down
automatically, and so
if you don't want this effect you'll
have to do something to fix it.
Make sense?
Okay, great, so phew, let's group
together our two sections here.
We don't actually even need a class for
this or anything.
We can just say div and /div.
The whole purpose is just to
group them for grids for grid and
we don't have to tell grid to do anything.
So, just by putting that div in place,
then those two items wind up here in that
column all together,
exactly as they should.
Yeah?
Make sense?
Okay, so, now with we need to do
a swap here for ordering, right?
So we can say our .cover.
And that of course comes from our HTML.
Inside of our main grid, we have a section
with a class of cover that includes
the album cover plus the audio player.
We'll just say that that is
going to go to order two, and
what will happen is where is this gonna
go when I make the screen bigger?
Is it gonna go to column one,
to column two, or column three?
How many people say it's
going to column one?
going to column two?
How many people say it's
going to column three?
One person says it's
going to column three,
one person says it's going to column two,
and the rest of you didn't vote, cowards.
Cowards all of you, okay?
So the answer is,
it will go to column three, why is that?
We said order two, but I went to
column three, why did that happen?
>> Because it's the only thing that
has order, and thus it's going to be
positioned based on the fact that
the others are by default order one.
>> Exactly, exactly.
So the other things
don't have an order yet.
So it goes over to the very end.
All right, so that means we have to
assign something else so we can say our.
Let's see, actually I wrote this style,
main grid aside.
Aside, I don't have an aside anymore,
I have a div.
Div last child [LAUGH]
Why did I write that?
Basically, I'm targeting
this div right here,
which is this is the last
child in the main grid.
So that will we'll put that
as an order three, okay?
So cover, that's the cover with the audio,
is now order two,
that the track list is now order three,
and the reviews have no order.
So in what order are those
going to display?
Reviews is gonna be in what position?
We haven't assigned an order to it, so it
will show up in the first position, right?
On the left.
The album cover will show up where?
In the second position, in the middle.
And where will the track list show up?
Over on the right hand side.
That's our theory.
We're sticking to it.
Hey, there we go.
Okay, looking good.
And there's our border
here on the outside.
So we have a couple little
clean up things to do.
First of all we wanna have these
all evenly to the top of the page,
what's going on here?
Why isn't this even with the other two?
>> We assigned a margin to it.
>> We did assign a margin to it,
didn't we?
We assigned a margin to this thing
in an earlier style somewhere.
You can dig into it and
find it eventually.
So I'll spare you that trouble.
It's called .album is the class for that.
And we can just say margin top of 0.
Okay?
So now, they're all the same height.
For the navigation,
we may want to play around with,
continue to play around with
this a little bit more.
We may wanna push our
navigation in a little bit.
So these are all now tiny tweaks, right?
Everything is generally in the right spot,
so
now we just do a couple
little tiny tweaks.
And so I can take out my border on
the wrapper for my navigation.
We'll see.
Actually, that's top.
We might do something like
a max width of 850 pixels and
a margin of four REM auto and
that will push this in.
When we get here to desktop, yeah.
So it's not quite all the way to the edges
of the page, that's up to the designer if
that's the look they want, well,
we can give it to them, right?
And then of course you could do something
like with your rapper we currently set it
to 1440 bands a little big maybe we
actually want it more like 1200 pixels.
And then that way, my screen won't expand
any larger than 1,206, [LAUGH] But
in that way we can reduce
how wide it's expanding,
and you can stick some whatever,
a margin on that or whatever.
So you could say something like margin.
Let's say two REM zero.
So we're gonna put margin on the two
sides and then that way our images won't
be cut off on the edge of the page if
you can make your window big enough.
And right now I can't make my
window big enough, unfortunately.
Actually I've got those numbers backwards,
don't I?
I do should be zero to REM.
Sorry, zero to REM.
Let's try that one more time.
Like that.
Cool?
Probably one of the more complicated
pages some of you have ever made, true?
Yeah?
Nice, so, congratulations everybody,
you did it, you survived,
you made the medium design.
[APPLAUSE] Fantastic work everyone